The Project Gutenberg EBook of Gel It!, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: Gel It!
       Easy Ways to be a Spectacular Cook

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: August 27, 2020 [EBook #63055]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GEL IT! ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net









                                gel it!


                   easy ways to be a spectacular cook


—new 30-minute gel

—gels clear and airy

—design your own: main dishes • salads and desserts

—party snacks any day

—diet and beauty tips


  A MODERN GUIDE TO GELATINE COOKERY
  EDUCATIONAL DEPT. KNOX GELATINE, INC.
  JOHNSTOWN, N. Y.

    [Illustration: gel it!]




                            gel it! in style


Here is your guide to new style in cooking, adding form to dishes,
setting off flavors, colors and textures to your taste—and in new quick
time, too. Amazing? Read on.

You’ll find easy ways to chill a shapely salad, “bake” a handsome
refrigerator cake or pie, mold a spectacular dessert or heap it high in
a serving dish. As you cook your way through these pages, you’ll find
that you have mastered more than one dish at a time. These recipes are
patterns as convenient as a basic dress; you can vary them your
individual way. Choose the foods and flavors you prefer or have on hand,
and gel them in style—_your_ style.

What is gelatine? Unflavored gelatine is colorless, odorless, and
tasteless. Knox Gelatine is a granulated protein substance derived from
the long bones of cattle. It is pure protein consisting of 17 amino
acids ... among them 7 out of the 8 essential to good diet.
(Commercially flavored gelatines, on the other hand, consist of ⅞ sugar
and flavorings and only ⅛ gelatine.) Unflavored gelatine takes on the
flavors and colors you choose, when combined in dishes to your taste.
For extra style in a dish, gel it!


{quick-gel} new 30-minute gel!

Now you can cook the modern way—fast!—with gelatine. The new quick-gel
method takes advantage of modern refrigeration and food products, to
prepare gelatine dishes that are ready to serve minutes after you stir
them together! After gelatine is softened, then dissolved in hot liquid,
add frozen juices, fruits or soups, ice cream or ice cubes as part of
the liquid. The frozen food or cubes will melt and quick-chill the
gelatine, resulting in gels within half an hour! You’ll find new
quick-gel recipes throughout this booklet.




                               • contents


  easy guide to gel cookery                                            3
  gels clear and airy                                                  4
  dessert magic                                                      5-8
  shape a meal (main dishes)                                        9-10
  salads ahead                                                     11-13
  party snacks any day                                                14
  dieters’ tips                                                       15
  the Knox drink                                                      16

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]




                       easy guide to gel cookery
               cooking with gelatine is as easy as 1-2-3.


1 An envelope of gelatine will gel 1 pint of liquid. First, choose the
      liquid you will use—water, juice, broth, milk or other as
      designated in recipes which follow. Sprinkle gelatine from the
      envelope over ½ cup of cold liquid and let stand a few minutes to
      soften. If sugar is to be added, stir sugar with the gelatine
      before you begin. (If 1 tablespoon or more of sugar is added, the
      gelatine-sugar mixture may be softened and dissolved directly in
      hot liquid.)

2 Stir softened gelatine over medium heat until mixture is clear and
      gelatine dissolved, about 2 to 3 minutes. Remove from heat and add
      remaining liquid or, for new quick-gel method, add frozen juice,
      fruit, etc.

3 Pour into mold or serving dish, chill until set. This takes 2 to 4
      hours, or may be cut down to ½ hour or less when made the new
      quick-gel way. Smaller molds set faster.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]




                          gels clear and airy


When gelatine is dissolved in a clear liquid it makes a shimmering clear
gel, with smooth texture. Gels are delicious plain, or you may add
contrast by incorporating solids before the gel is completely set. Or
turn out light and frothy dishes by incorporating air. For a whip,
simply beat any partially set gelatine with a rotary beater, then chill.
Or, add beaten egg whites, whipped cream or whipped evaporated milk, or
such ready-beaten mixtures as mayonnaise and ice cream to make mousses,
creamy molds, and other specialties. Tips to make this easy:


how to beat...

At a slightly thickened consistency, clear gelatine can be turned into
an airy, frothy mixture. Whip the gelatine with rotary or electric
beater until it is light and fluffy, then chill firm. Or add egg whites
and beat all together to make an especially frothy “snow.” (See page 6
for recipes.)


how to set...

To set gelatine, just put the mold in the refrigerator. To add solids,
chill gelatine mixture until slightly thickened, to prevent solids from
rising to the top or sinking to the bottom. When gelatine mixture
reaches the consistency of unbeaten egg white, you can fold in cut-up
drained fruits, vegetables, meats or other solids, whipped milk
(evaporated or nonfat solids) or cream. Then chill.

For an extra-fast set, first put mold in the freezer for 5 minutes. Or,
put bowl or pan of gelatine mixture into a container of ice and water
and stir mixture for 5 minutes, until it begins to thicken. Then chill
in refrigerator.


how to unmold...

Dip mold briefly into warm (not hot!) water just to level of gelatine
mixture. Run the tip of a knife around edge of gelatine. Rinse a serving
plate in cold water (makes it easier to slide mold to center of plate),
place plate on top of the mold, invert plate and mold together, and
shake gently to loosen gelatine. Lift off mold, slide gelatine into
place in center of plate. Presto! A snack or main dish, salad or dessert
with form and style!

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]




                            {D}essert magic


Dessert is often the star of the meal—and you can quickly learn to
select a superb dessert recipe first, then plan a meal which will lead
up to your grand finale.

As you begin to prepare and serve meals, it may seem you need some magic
power to have all dishes and courses ready to serve at the right time. A
gelatine dessert can be your abra-cadabra—prepare it ahead, have it
ready in the refrigerator at serving time.

This advance preparation need no longer require hours of chilling! With
new quick-gel ways of preparing gelatine desserts with frozen foods such
as juices, ice cream and frozen fruits, you can stir together a quick
fruit mold or a berry-cream pie and have it ready to unmold or slice and
serve within minutes! Gelatine captures the full flavor of these
refreshing foods, makes it easier than ever to serve a special dessert.

In selecting a dessert, remember—dessert should complete the meal in a
complementary, contrasting way. Dessert should be light and refreshing
after a lengthy, filling meal; it can be hearty and satisfying when the
meal before has been light. Unflavored gelatine takes on your favorite
flavor in any type of dessert, from feather-weight snows and whips to
rich, creamy pies and cakes.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]




                      a {G}el can be many desserts


Here are pattern recipes you can prepare to your taste. Make the
traditional Simple Fruit Gel in your favorite fruit flavor, or the new
Quick Fruit Gel, which lets you choose from the rainbow of flavors of
frozen juice concentrates available in your supermarket. Then, just look
at the dazzling variety of desserts you can make from either of these
patterns:


simple fruit gel

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ¼ cup sugar
  ⅛ tsp. salt
  ¾ cup boiling water
  1 cup fruit juice[1], unthawed
  1 Tbsp. lemon juice

Stir gelatine, sugar and salt together well. Pour boiling water over,
stir until gelatine is completely dissolved. Add juices, stir, chill
until firm. Makes 4 servings.

Setting time: 1½ to 3 hours.


quick fruit gel {quick-gel}

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ¾ cup cold water
  ¼ cup sugar
  1 can (6 oz.) frozen juice concentrate[1]
  3 ice cubes

Sprinkle gelatine on cold water in small saucepan. Stir over medium heat
until gelatine is dissolved, 2 to 3 minutes. Remove from heat. Stir in
sugar. Add juice concentrate, ice cubes; stir smooth. Chill until firm.
Makes 4 servings.

Setting time: 25 to 30 minutes.


whips...

Make either fruit gel, and chill until mixture is slightly thickened.
Beat with electric or rotary beater until light, fluffy and double in
volume. Pile in sherbet glasses and chill until firm. Makes 6 to 8
servings.


snows...

Make either fruit gel and chill until mixture is slightly thickened. Add
2 unbeaten egg whites and beat until mixture begins to hold its shape,
is light and fluffy, about 7 or 8 minutes. Turn into mold or serving
dishes, chill until firm. Makes 6 to 8 servings.


sherbet...

Make either fruit gel, using 1 cup sugar (instead of ¼ cup), and 1¾ cups
boiling water (instead of ¾ cup). Add ¼ cup lemon juice. Freeze in
refrigerator tray until mushy, beat well in cold bowl with rotary or
electric beater. Freeze again in two ice trays. Cover with foil, store
in freezer until serving time. Especially delicious with orange, grape
or cranberry juice. Or make tangy lemon or lime sherbet, using just ½
cup lemon or lime juice altogether. Makes 8 servings.




                     {B}ake it in the refrigerator


crazy cake

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  ¾ cup boiling water
  ⅔ cup sugar
  ½ cup fine graham cracker crumbs
  3 egg whites (save yolks for Lemon Sauce*)
  ½ tsp. salt
  2 tsps. vanilla

Sprinkle gelatine on cold water in 3-qt. mixing bowl to soften. Add
boiling water and stir until gelatine is dissolved. Stir in sugar, chill
slightly (15 minutes in refrigerator). In the meantime, sprinkle half of
the graham cracker crumbs over bottom and sides of greased 9-inch square
pan. Add egg whites, salt and vanilla to chilled gelatine mixture. Beat
with rotary or electric beater about 10 minutes, until light, fluffy and
mounding when beater is lifted. Turn into crumb-lined pan; sprinkle with
remaining graham cracker crumbs. Chill ½ hour or until ready to serve.
Cut in 3-inch squares and serve with Lemon Sauce* (prepare sauce while
dessert chills). Makes 9 servings.


*lemon sauce

  3 egg yolks
  ½ cup sugar
  ⅓ cup melted butter or margarine
  3 Tbsps. lemon juice
  1 Tbsp. grated lemon rind
  ⅓ cup heavy cream

Beat egg yolks until thick and lemon colored. Stir in sugar, melted
butter, lemon juice and grated rind. Whip cream, fold into lemon
mixture.


no-bake chocolate birthday cake

Here’s a new kind of birthday “cake”—no baking needed, and your
imagination can turn a simple gelatine into a dessert to suit the taste
of the king or queen of the day.

  4 envelopes Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  1½ cups sugar, divided
  ½ tsp. salt
  1 cup cocoa
  6 eggs, separated
  5 cups milk
  1 Tbsp. vanilla
  Vanilla wafers
  Whipped cream

Mix gelatine, ¾ cup of sugar, salt and cocoa in top of double boiler.
Beat egg yolks and milk together. Add to gelatine mixture. Cook over
boiling water, stirring constantly until gelatine is dissolved, about 5
to 8 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in vanilla. Chill until mixture
mounds slightly when dropped from a spoon. Beat egg whites until stiff.
Beat in remaining ¾ cup sugar. Fold chocolate gelatine mixture into egg
whites. Turn into two 9-inch layer cake pans. Chill until firm. Unmold
one layer on cake plate. Top with flat layer of vanilla wafers. Turn out
second layer of gelatine over this. Decorate and garnish with whipped
cream. Chill until serving time. Makes 12 servings.




                              {P}arty pies


5-minute berry cream pie {quick-gel}
_a quick-gel recipe_

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ¾ cup cold orange juice or water[2]
  1 pint strawberry ice cream[2]
  8-inch baked pie shell or crumb crust

Sprinkle gelatine on juice or cold water to soften, stir over moderate
heat until gelatine is dissolved, about 3 minutes. Spoon ice cream into
hot mixture and stir until melted and smooth. Turn into prepared pie
shell and chill just 5 minutes. Garnish top of pie with fresh or frozen
berries. Makes 6 servings.


no-bake cheesecake pie

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup milk or light cream
  ½ cup sugar
  2 packages (8 oz. each) cream cheese
  2 eggs
  1 tsp. vanilla extract
  9-inch crumb crust
  1 cup commercial sour cream
  1 Tbsp. sugar
  ½ tsp. vanilla extract

Sprinkle gelatine on milk to soften, stir over very low heat until
gelatine is dissolved, about 2 to 3 minutes. Stir in sugar. Beat cheese
until creamy, gradually beat in dissolved gelatine mixture. Add eggs,
beat well, beat in vanilla extract. Pour into prepared crumb crust and
chill in refrigerator until firm. Beat sour cream with remaining sugar
and vanilla until smooth and thick and spread evenly over top of pie to
the edges. Chill again until serving time. Makes 6 to 8 servings.

Diet Tip: Substitute creamed cottage cheese for cream cheese, omit
topping.


tropical chiffon pie

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  1 cup sugar, divided
  ⅛ tsp. salt
  4 eggs, separated
  ½ cup lemon or lime juice
  ¼ cup water
  2 tsps. grated lime or lemon rind
  9-inch pie shell or crumb crust

Mix gelatine, ½ cup sugar and salt in saucepan. Beat egg yolks, juice
and water together, add to gelatine mixture. Cook over low heat,
stirring constantly, until gelatine is dissolved, about 5 minutes.
Remove from heat, stir in grated rind. Chill until mixture mounds
slightly when dropped from a spoon. Beat egg whites stiff, beat in
remaining ½ cup sugar, and fold into gelatine mixture. Turn into pie
shell, chill until firm. Makes 6 to 8 servings.




                           {S}hape a meal...


Add a cold main dish to your repertoire of favorite recipes—perfect for
a special lunch, or a weekend supper when you’ve had a large meal
earlier, and for summer meals when any dish that’s cold is doubly
appealing.

Your secret ingredient can be Knox Unflavored Gelatine, which takes on
the flavor of your favorite foods, combining meat, fish or poultry with
colorful vegetables in a savory gelatine main dish.

To round out an appealing menu, add crisp salad greens and other cold
vegetables, and a choice of salad dressings. A cup of hot soup as
appetizer, or warm rolls or crunchy bread, can accent the cool remainder
of the meal, and satisfy appetites happily. Finish with a favorite
dessert.


quick-gel casserole {quick-gel}

With frozen soups to speed setting, you can make a cold, flavorful main
dish casserole that’s ready to eat just minutes after preparation.

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  1¼ cups milk
  1 can (10¼ oz.) frozen cream of potato soup[3], half thawed
  1½ cups diced ham
  1 cucumber, peeled and diced
  2 Tbsps. minced chives
  3 radishes, sliced
  Chopped parsley for garnish

Sprinkle gelatine on milk, let stand to soften, stir over low heat until
gelatine is dissolved, 2 to 3 minutes. Remove from heat, spoon in frozen
soup and stir until soup thaws and mixture mounds slightly when dropped
from a spoon. Fold in remaining ingredients, chill until firm, about 5
to 10 minutes. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, serve in casserole. Makes
4 servings.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]


dinner ring

Bits of meat, fish or poultry are suspended with crisp vegetables in
this clear, shimmering main dish—mold it in a ring or fancy shape, then
unmold to serve on salad greens. Delicious with potato salad.

  2 envelopes Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  1 can (10½ oz.) beef broth, divided
  1 can (17½ oz.) tomato juice
  ½ tsp. salt
  2 Tbsps. lemon juice
  ¼ tsp. Tabasco
  2 cups diced cooked chicken[4]
  1½ cups chopped celery
  ½ cup chopped cucumber
  ¼ cup sliced stuffed olives, if desired

Sprinkle gelatine on 1 cup of the beef broth to soften. Place over low
heat and stir until gelatine is dissolved, 2 to 3 minutes. Remove from
heat and stir in remaining beef broth, tomato juice, salt, lemon juice
and Tabasco. Chill until mixture mounds slightly when dropped from a
spoon. Fold in remaining ingredients. Turn into a 6-cup ring or other
mold and chill until firm. Unmold to serve. Makes 6 to 8 servings.


easy as pie supper

A cold main dish in a crisp pie shell stars seafood, ham or egg salad in
clever new form, fun to make and to eat.

  2 envelopes Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  1 cup cold water or tomato juice
  1 can (10½ oz.) beef broth
  1 cup mayonnaise
  ½ tsp. salt
  2 Tbsps. lemon juice
  1 cup diced raw vegetables or fruit[5]
  2 cups diced chicken, meat, seafood or hard-cooked eggs
  1 baked 9-inch pie shell
  Chopped parsley for garnish

Sprinkle unflavored gelatine on water to soften, stir over moderate heat
2 to 3 minutes to dissolve. Remove from heat, stir in beef broth,
mayonnaise, salt and lemon juice. Beat mixture smooth with rotary
beater. Chill, stirring occasionally, until mixture mounds slightly when
dropped from a spoon. Fold in remaining ingredients and turn into cooled
pie shell. Sprinkle border with chopped parsley, if desired. Chill until
firm. Makes 6 servings. (Gelatine mixture may also be molded in a pan or
other form, rather than in pastry shell.)

Diet Tip: Use low calorie salad dressing. Omit olives and avocado.


easy cheese pie shell

Add ½ cup grated sharp Cheddar cheese to dry mixture for basic pie crust
recipe or packaged mix, add liquid as usual.




                           {S}alads ahead...


Serve a delicious gelatine salad with the main-course, or for a change,
before (California style) or after the main dish (as in Europe).

what they add... Gelatine salads add coolness, sparkle, interesting
texture—all the wonderful contrasts that make a meal more exciting.
Choose a flavor to complement the rest of the meal and serve a salad
with the shape and style that only gelatine can guarantee.

what they save... There’s no last-minute preparation with a gelatine
salad. Prepare and unmold in advance, to whisk from refrigerator to
table in an instant. With frozen fruits and fruit juice concentrates,
you can now make quick-gel salads in infinite variety.


perfection salad...

The perfect salad is the one that tastes best to you, with your
particular meal. This one can be varied to fit many menus!

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ¼ cup sugar
  ½ tsp. salt
  1¼ cups water, divided
  ¼ cup vinegar
  1 Tbsp. lemon juice
  ½ cup finely shredded cabbage[1]
  1 cup shredded carrot[1]
  1 pimento, cut in small pieces, or 2 Tbsps. chopped red or green
              pepper[1]

Mix gelatine, sugar and salt thoroughly in small saucepan. Add ½ cup of
the water. Place over low heat, stirring constantly until gelatine is
dissolved. Remove from heat and stir in remaining ¾ cup of water,
vinegar and lemon juice. Chill mixture to unbeaten egg white
consistency. Fold in vegetables. Turn into a 2-cup mold or individual
molds, chill until firm. Unmold, garnish with salad greens, serve with
salad dressing. Makes 4 servings.


[1]try these combinations:

  Chopped celery, shredded cabbage, chopped pepper or pimiento
  Shredded carrot, orange sections, diced canned pineapple
  Chopped cucumber and onion
  Drained mixed fruits or cooked mixed vegetables


diet tip:

Make this a really low-calorie salad treat by using artificial sweetener
in place of sugar. Soften gelatine in cold water first.




                         favorite fruit salads


    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]


mixed fruit salad {quick-gel}
_a quick-gel recipe_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  2 Tbsps. sugar
  ⅛ tsp. salt
  ¾ cup cold water
  1 can (6 oz.) frozen juice concentrate[6], unthawed
  1 Tbsp. lemon juice or vinegar
  3 ice cubes
  1½ cups diced fruits—fresh, canned or frozen[6]

Combine gelatine, sugar and salt in saucepan, add water, and stir over
low heat until gelatine dissolves, about 2 to 3 minutes. Remove from
heat. Add frozen concentrate, lemon juice and ice cubes. Stir until
juice and ice melt and the mixture is the consistency of unbeaten egg
white, fold in fruits. Turn into 3-cup mold or 4 to 6 individual molds,
chill until firm, about 25 to 30 minutes. Unmold on greens, serve with
mayonnaise. Makes 4 to 6 servings.


sliced peach salad {quick-gel}
_a quick-gel recipe_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ¼ cup vinegar
  1 can (12 oz.) peach nectar[7]
  Cinnamon stick, dash ginger
  ¼ tsp. salt
  1 pkg. (10 oz.) frozen peaches[7]

Sprinkle gelatine on vinegar, add nectar, spices and salt. Stir over low
heat until gelatine is dissolved, about 3 minutes. Remove from heat.
Discard cinnamon. Stir in frozen fruits; by the time fruit thaws,
mixture will be thickened. Turn into 4-cup mold or individual molds,
chill until firm, about 30 minutes. Unmold, serve on greens with salad
dressing. Makes 4 to 6 servings.


molded waldorf salad

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ¼ cup sugar
  ½ tsp. salt
  1½ cups apple juice, cider or water, divided
  ¼ cup lemon juice
  2 cups diced unpeeled apples
  ½ cup diced celery
  ¼ cup chopped walnuts
  ¼ cup raisins

Mix gelatine, sugar and salt in a saucepan. Stir in ½ cup juice. Stir
over low heat until gelatine is dissolved, about 2 to 3 minutes. Add
remaining liquid, chill until mixture is slightly thickened. Fold in
remaining ingredients. Turn into 4-cup mold and chill until firm. Unmold
on greens, serve with French dressing. Makes 4 to 6 servings.

Diet Tip: Use artificial sweetener; skip raisins and nuts.




                         specialty salad molds


guacamole salad

Serve this Mexican-inspired salad with a main dish, or mold it in a ring
and fill with chicken, egg or tuna salad, or with cooked chilled shrimp
or crab meat.

  2 envelopes Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  4 cups vegetable juice cocktail, divided
  1 garlic clove, crushed
  1-2 Tbsps. chopped chives
  ¼-½ tsp. Tabasco
  2 ripe avocados
  2 Tbsps. lemon juice

Sprinkle gelatine on 1 cup vegetable juice, stir over low heat 2 to 3
minutes until gelatine is dissolved. Remove from heat. Add garlic,
chives and Tabasco with remaining juice. Pour half of aspic mixture into
5-cup mold, chill until nearly firm. Peel and slice avocados, sprinkle
with lemon juice. Arrange on firm aspic, pour remaining aspic over,
chill. Unmold on bed of water cress, and serve with mayonnaise or French
dressing. Makes 8 servings.

Diet Tip: Use green pepper, celery, sliced radishes or slivered cabbage
instead of avocados.


cranberry-orange relish

  1 unpeeled orange, quartered and seeded[8]
  2 cups cranberries
  1 cup sugar
  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  1 cup bottled cranberry juice cocktail, divided

Put orange and cranberries through food chopper. Add sugar, mix well.
Sprinkle gelatine on half the cranberry juice to soften, place over low
heat, and stir 2 to 3 minutes until gelatine is dissolved. Remove from
heat, stir in remaining ½ cup cranberry juice and orange-cranberry
mixture. Turn into 6 individual molds or 3-cup ring mold. Unmold to
serve with ham, chicken, turkey, or with any cold meat.

Diet Tip: Use artificial sweetener.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]




                         {P}arty snacks any day


A snack is probably your most frequent meal—make it something special!
It’s easy to gel a nibble with delicious new flavor and good nutrition.
When you open the refrigerator door, there will be a snack with style,
ready for you or for an impromptu party.


golives

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

Gelatine plus olives equals “golives”—a delicious snack spiced with
vegetable juice flavor:

  3 envelopes Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  2 cups vegetable juice cocktail
  1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce
  1 tsp. lemon juice
  Pinch sugar
  Dash cayenne
  ½ cup chopped olives

Sprinkle gelatine on 1 cup vegetable juice cocktail in a saucepan, stir
over medium heat 2 to 3 minutes, until gelatine is dissolved. Add
remaining juice, Worcestershire, lemon juice and seasonings. Cool to
consistency of unbeaten egg whites, fold in chopped olives and pour into
an ice cube tray. Chill until firm in refrigerator (don’t freeze). Cut
into diamonds or squares. Set on plate, keep handy in refrigerator for
zesty nibbles.


cola fruit salad

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

Fun as a TV snack, with cookies, salted nuts and a beverage.

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  2 Tbsps. sugar
  ¼ cup water
  Juice of 1 lemon
  1½ cups cola or ginger ale
  1½ cups mixed diced fruits (no fresh or frozen pineapple)

Mix gelatine and sugar in a saucepan. Add water and lemon juice and stir
constantly over low heat, about 2 to 3 minutes, until gelatine and sugar
are dissolved. Remove from heat, add cola. Chill until mixture is the
consistency of unbeaten egg white. Fold in mixed diced fruit. Turn into
6 individual molds, chill until firm. Unmold and serve with whipped
cream. Makes 6 servings.


fruit jewels

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

This gelatine treat has a refreshing fruit flavor. It’s a delicious new
way to enjoy the daily envelope of unflavored gelatine which has proven
helpful in correcting problem fingernails—see back cover. One third the
quantity of Fruit Jewels recipe equals one envelope of gelatine.

  3 envelopes Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  ¾ cup boiling water
  1 can (6 oz.) frozen juice or punch concentrate[9], unthawed

Sprinkle gelatine on cold water in a bowl. Let stand a few minutes to
soften. Add boiling water, stir until gelatine is dissolved. Stir in
juice or punch concentrate until melted. Pour into 8-inch pie pan or
cake pan or other small shallow pan. Chill 30 minutes. Cut in bars or
squares to serve, or cut in fun shapes with small cookie cutters.




                            {D}ieters’ tips


Calorie counters enjoy a special bonus when they learn the knack of
giving new form to diet foods with unflavored gelatine. Lean meats, fish
and poultry go into savory main-dish molds, and the nourishing fruits
and vegetables so important to the dieter are delicious in gelatine
salads and desserts. Try the low-calorie versions of favorite gelatine
recipes below.


golden salad

  1 can (8 oz.) low-calorie pineapple tidbits
  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  Non-caloric sweetener to equal ¼ cup sugar
  ¼ tsp. salt
  ¼ cup orange juice
  ¼ cup vinegar
  ½ cup cut-up orange sections
  ½ cup coarsely grated carrots

Drain liquid from pineapple into a saucepan. Sprinkle gelatine on this.
Stir over low heat until gelatine is dissolved, about 2 to 3 minutes.
Add sweetener and salt. Remove from heat and stir in orange juice and
vinegar. Chill to unbeaten egg white consistency. Fold in pineapple
tidbits, orange sections and carrots. Turn into a 3-cup mold or
individual molds and chill until firm. Unmold on serving platter,
garnish with greens, and serve with low-calorie salad dressing. Makes 6
servings, 38 calories each.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]


applesauce whip {quick-gel}
_a quick-gel recipe_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  Non-caloric sweetener to equal ¼ cup sugar
  3 ice cubes
  2 Tbsps. lemon juice
  2 cups cold, unsweetened applesauce (or low-calorie applesauce)

Sprinkle gelatine on cold water in saucepan to soften. Place over medium
heat, stirring constantly until gelatine is dissolved, about 2 to 3
minutes. Remove from heat; stir in sweetener and ice cubes, until cubes
melt. Stir in lemon juice and applesauce. Beat with rotary beater until
light. Turn into serving dishes. Makes 6 servings, just 37 calories
each!




                               FOOTNOTES


[1]_Use any flavor fruit juice, adjusting sugar to taste. An enzyme in
    fresh or frozen pineapple juice prevents setting. Cook these 2
    minutes before using with gelatine. (This will lengthen setting time
    of Quick Fruit Gel.)_

[2]_Other delicious flavor combinations: cold coffee and chocolate ice
    cream, apricot nectar and peach ice cream, orange juice and banana
    ice cream._

[3]_More combinations for frozen-soup casseroles: New England style clam
    chowder with salmon, tuna or other cooked fish, cucumber, radishes,
    celery; green pea with ham soup with ham or bologna, crisp pepper;
    cream of shrimp soup with any seafood, sliced olives, slivered
    almonds._

[4]_Or use turkey, pork, veal, beef, shrimp, crab meat, tuna._

[5]_Use any combination of raw vegetables that flatters the flavor of
    the main ingredient: grapes and green pepper for chicken; cabbage,
    onion and pickles for ham; stuffed olives, celery and chives for
    eggs. Don’t forget avocado, apples, cucumbers, radishes with other
    meats._

[6]_Use any flavor fruit juice, adjusting sugar to taste. Do not use
    frozen pineapple juice or uncooked pineapple with fruits. See
    footnote, page 6._

[7]_Substitute other fruit nectars, use frozen mixed fruits (no
    pineapple) or berries for a change._

[8]_Substitute 2 tangerines or 1 apple for orange; or add ¼ cup chopped
    nuts._

[9]_Any flavor except pineapple._


                             _TURN THE PAGE
                      ... to learn the Knox secret
                   of maintaining your diet happily!_




                        how to be a happy dieter


For a protein pick-up that helps your dieting will power, make the KNOX
DRINK with juice, bouillon, skim milk or water, and drink about one half
hour before meals. You’ll eat the foods you like along with the family,
but with Knox taking the edge off your hunger, you’ll eat less and like
it.




                              nail beauty


If you have problem nails, you can prove for yourself what medical tests
have shown ... a daily supplement of 1 envelope of Knox has been
effective in correcting 7 out of 10 cases of brittle, splitting nails!
Drink the KNOX DRINK daily, making it with fruit juice, vegetable juice,
bouillon or water, or enjoy your daily envelope of Knox in the new
delicious fun-to-eat fruit bar form on page 14.




                             the KNOX drink


Fill a glass with about 1 cup of fruit or vegetable juice, milk or
water. Pour in 1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine, whisking lightly
with a fork for smooth dispersal of gelatine. Drink at once. _For a hot
Knox Drink_, sprinkle 1 envelope Knox on ¼ cup cold water. Add ¾ cup hot
broth (or 1 bouillon cube and ¾ cup boiling water). Stir until gelatine
and bouillon are dissolved.

    [Illustration: KNOX]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Gel It!, by Anonymous

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GEL IT! ***

***** This file should be named 63055-0.txt or 63055-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/0/5/63055/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

